docs/academy/plotting-farming/challenges-plot-filters.md, before:

---
title: Challenges & Plot Filters
slug: /challenges-plot-filters
---

In this lesson, we discuss how the plot filter works, and what the benefits are of using one.

## Learning objectives

- **Plot Filters**: Understand the basics of how the plot filter works, as well as the benefits of using one.
- **Challenge Generation**: Understand how the challenge is generated by the Timelord and sent to the Farmer.

---

## Content

<div class="videoWrapper">
<iframe width="100%" height="504" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7L17dRNI6Kc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>
</div>

---

## Script

<details>

<summary> Expand for the full script </summary>

0:00  
The Timelord generates a new challenge about every 9 seconds. This is then hashed with the ID of each plot.

0:20  
If the hash starts with 9 zeroes, the plot is considered eligible for harvesting. This is called the plot filter. The Plot Filter serves as a decentralizing force to further randomize the winner, as well as reduce the total compute needed for each challenge.

0:40  
When a farmer receives a challenge, the harvester first determines which plots are valid and pass the plot filter, then produces potential proofs of space and submits them to the Timelord for verification and review.

1:00  
The Timelord will choose the Proof of Space that most closely meets the challenge, and using the challenge and provided Proof of Space as inputs, runs a VDF to prove that time has passed and produces the next challenge.

</details>

---

## Common gotchas

- **Are valid proofs filtered out?:** It is very possible that a valid proof of space would be contained in a filtered plot. This affects every farmer equally though, and the benefits of further decentralization are well worth it.

---

## Knowledge check

:::tip Question 1 - Challenge Frequency

About how often will a Timelord generate a new challenge?

:::

<details>

<summary> Answer (expand when ready to see the answer)  </summary>

`"About every 9 seconds"`

</details>

:::tip Question 2 - Filter Benefits

What are the two significant benefits of using a plot filter?

:::

<details>

<summary> Answer (expand when ready to see the answer)  </summary>

```bash
1. It further decentralizes the network.
2. It reduces the amount of compute needed, improving network efficiency
```

</details>

---

## Additional resources

### Links

- More [farming basics](https://docs.chia.net/farming-basics): overviews of plotting, pooling, and rewards.
- In depth [architecture overview](https://docs.chia.net/architecture-overview): describing the interactions between Farmers, Harvesters, Wallets, etc.
- Chialisp [detailed documentation](https://chialisp.com/): detailed information on all aspects of chialisp.
- Support [in discord](https://discord.gg/chia): for further support join our discord server and ask in the #chialisp or #support channels.

---

Commit message:

academy docs seo optimizations
academy - addition of description and keywords in front matter

docs/academy/plotting-farming/challenges-plot-filters.md, after:

---
title: Challenges & Plot Filters
slug: /challenges-plot-filters
description: In this lesson, we discuss how the plot filter works in the chia blockchain consensus, and what the benefits are of using one.
keywords:
  - chia
  - academy
  - Plot
  - Filters
  - Challenge
  - Generation
  - Farmer
---

In this lesson, we discuss how the plot filter works, and what the benefits are of using one.

## Learning objectives

- **Plot Filters**: Understand the basics of how the plot filter works, as well as the benefits of using one.
- **Challenge Generation**: Understand how the challenge is generated by the Timelord and sent to the Farmer.

---

## Content

<div class="videoWrapper">
<iframe width="100%" height="504" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7L17dRNI6Kc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>
</div>

---

## Script

<details>

<summary> Expand for the full script </summary>

0:00  
The Timelord generates a new challenge about every 9 seconds. This is then hashed with the ID of each plot.

0:20  
If the hash starts with 9 zeroes, the plot is considered eligible for harvesting. This is called the plot filter. The Plot Filter serves as a decentralizing force to further randomize the winner, as well as reduce the total compute needed for each challenge.

0:40  
When a farmer receives a challenge, the harvester first determines which plots are valid and pass the plot filter, then produces potential proofs of space and submits them to the Timelord for verification and review.

1:00  
The Timelord will choose the Proof of Space that most closely meets the challenge, and using the challenge and provided Proof of Space as inputs, runs a VDF to prove that time has passed and produces the next challenge.

</details>

---

## Common gotchas

- **Are valid proofs filtered out?:** It is very possible that a valid proof of space would be contained in a filtered plot. This affects every farmer equally though, and the benefits of further decentralization are well worth it.

---

## Knowledge check

:::tip Question 1 - Challenge Frequency

About how often will a Timelord generate a new challenge?

:::

<details>

<summary> Answer (expand when ready to see the answer)  </summary>

`"About every 9 seconds"`

</details>

:::tip Question 2 - Filter Benefits

What are the two significant benefits of using a plot filter?

:::

<details>

<summary> Answer (expand when ready to see the answer)  </summary>

```bash
1. It further decentralizes the network.
2. It reduces the amount of compute needed, improving network efficiency
```

</details>

---

## Additional resources

### Links

- More [farming basics](https://docs.chia.net/farming-basics): overviews of plotting, pooling, and rewards.
- In depth [architecture overview](https://docs.chia.net/architecture-overview): describing the interactions between Farmers, Harvesters, Wallets, etc.
- Chialisp [detailed documentation](https://chialisp.com/): detailed information on all aspects of chialisp.
- Support [in discord](https://discord.gg/chia): for further support join our discord server and ask in the #chialisp or #support channels.

---
