docs/academy/plotting-farming/first-plot.md, before:

---
title: Creating your first Plot
slug: /first-plot
---

In this lesson, we learn how to set up the Chia client, sync our full node using a torrent file, and create our first plot to start farming.

## Learning objectives

- **Syncing a Full Node**: Learn how to set up the Chia client and sync a full node.
- **Plot Creation**: Learn how to create a plot.

---

## Content

<div class="videoWrapper">
<iframe width="100%" height="504" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/W9v7A8UJk9Q" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>
</div>

---

## Common gotchas

- **Joining a pool before plotting:** It might seem strange to join a pool before setting up your plots, but the plots need to be generated using a plotnft in order for the pool to know who runs them. You must associate a plotnft with a pool if you want to use pooling, and if set up correctly you can always leave the pool later and farm your plots solo.

---

## Knowledge check

Follow along with the video, and start plotting!

---

## Additional resources

### Links

- More [farming basics](https://docs.chia.net/farming-basics): overviews of plotting, pooling, and rewards.
- In depth [architecture overview](https://docs.chia.net/architecture-overview): describing the interactions between Farmers, Harvesters, Wallets, etc.
- Chialisp [detailed documentation](https://chialisp.com/): detailed information on all aspects of chialisp.
- Support [in discord](https://discord.gg/chia): for further support join our discord server and ask in the #chialisp or #support channels.

---

Commit message:

academy docs seo optimizations
academy - addition of description and keywords in front matter

docs/academy/plotting-farming/first-plot.md, after:

---
title: Creating your first Plot
slug: /first-plot
description: In this lesson, we learn how to set up the Chia client, sync our full node using a torrent file, and create our first plot to start farming.
keywords:
  - chia
  - academy
  - Syncing
  - Full Node
  - Plot
  - Creation
  - Plotting
  - Farmer
---

In this lesson, we learn how to set up the Chia client, sync our full node using a torrent file, and create our first plot to start farming.

## Learning objectives

- **Syncing a Full Node**: Learn how to set up the Chia client and sync a full node.
- **Plot Creation**: Learn how to create a plot.

---

## Content

<div class="videoWrapper">
<iframe width="100%" height="504" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/W9v7A8UJk9Q" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>
</div>

---

## Common gotchas

- **Joining a pool before plotting:** It might seem strange to join a pool before setting up your plots, but the plots need to be generated using a plotnft in order for the pool to know who runs them. You must associate a plotnft with a pool if you want to use pooling, and if set up correctly you can always leave the pool later and farm your plots solo.

---

## Knowledge check

Follow along with the video, and start plotting!

---

## Additional resources

### Links

- More [farming basics](https://docs.chia.net/farming-basics): overviews of plotting, pooling, and rewards.
- In depth [architecture overview](https://docs.chia.net/architecture-overview): describing the interactions between Farmers, Harvesters, Wallets, etc.
- Chialisp [detailed documentation](https://chialisp.com/): detailed information on all aspects of chialisp.
- Support [in discord](https://discord.gg/chia): for further support join our discord server and ask in the #chialisp or #support channels.

---
