docs/academy/plotting-farming/pools.md, before:

---
title: Pools
slug: /pools
---

In this lesson, we review the Pooling protocol, and how it can benefit a Farmer starting out.

## Learning objectives

- **Benefits of Pooling**: Understand the benefits of participating in a Pool.
- **Reward Splitting**: Understand how the rewards are split among pool participants.

---

## Content

<div class="videoWrapper">
<iframe width="100%" height="504" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qO1ctn7DhwE" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>
</div>

---

## Script

<details>

<summary> Expand for the full script </summary>

0:00  
Pools are a great way to get started with Farming. Pooling allows farmers to smooth out their rewards by earning based on proof of space partials, as opposed to winning blocks.

0:20  
A Proof of Space partial contains some additional metadata about the farmer that lets the Pool distribute shared rewards based on relative farm size. The more valid partials a farmer generates, the larger their share of the reward. When a submitted proof of space wins, the farmer that generated it still retains the right to farm the block, and processes it themselves.

0:40  
In return, they receive 1/8 the value of the reward, while the remaining 7/8 is distributed to the rest of the pool, based on valid partials. Because the block is still farmed by an individual farmer, the network remains sufficiently decentralized.

1:00  
The overall reward earned is largely the same over time for average sized farms, so Pooling is a great choice to get started.

</details>

---

## Common gotchas

- **Farming size still matters:** The size of a Farm directly relates to how many valid partials are generated, and partials determine a farmers share of the pool reward (7/8). This means there is still a benefit to large farms joining a pool.

---

## Knowledge check

:::tip Question 1 - Reward Split

What is the reward split between the Farmer and the Pool?

:::

<details>

<summary> Answer (expand when ready to see the answer)  </summary>

`"1/8 goes to the Farmer who won the challenge, 7/8 goes to the pool to be distributed"`

</details>

:::tip Question 2 - Decentralized Pooling

How does the protocol maintain decentralization?

:::

<details>

<summary> Answer (expand when ready to see the answer)  </summary>

`"By letting the Farmers process and author blocks, the network remains decentralized. Since the pool has no way of knowing which Farmer will win, and does not have a say on which transactions will be included in the block."`

</details>

---

## Additional resources

### Links

- More [farming basics](https://docs.chia.net/farming-basics): overviews of plotting, pooling, and rewards.
- In depth [architecture overview](https://docs.chia.net/architecture-overview): describing the interactions between Farmers, Harvesters, Wallets, etc.
- Chialisp [detailed documentation](https://chialisp.com/): detailed information on all aspects of chialisp.
- Support [in discord](https://discord.gg/chia): for further support join our discord server and ask in the #chialisp or #support channels.

---

Commit message:

academy docs seo optimizations
academy - addition of description and keywords in front matter

docs/academy/plotting-farming/pools.md, after:

---
title: Pools
slug: /pools
description: In this lesson, we review the chia Pooling protocol, and how it can benefit a Farmer starting out.
keywords:
  - chia
  - academy
  - Benefits
  - Full Node
  - Plot
  - Pooling
  - Reward
  - Splitting
  - Farmer
---

In this lesson, we review the Pooling protocol, and how it can benefit a Farmer starting out.

## Learning objectives

- **Benefits of Pooling**: Understand the benefits of participating in a Pool.
- **Reward Splitting**: Understand how the rewards are split among pool participants.

---

## Content

<div class="videoWrapper">
<iframe width="100%" height="504" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qO1ctn7DhwE" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>
</div>

---

## Script

<details>

<summary> Expand for the full script </summary>

0:00  
Pools are a great way to get started with Farming. Pooling allows farmers to smooth out their rewards by earning based on proof of space partials, as opposed to winning blocks.

0:20  
A Proof of Space partial contains some additional metadata about the farmer that lets the Pool distribute shared rewards based on relative farm size. The more valid partials a farmer generates, the larger their share of the reward. When a submitted proof of space wins, the farmer that generated it still retains the right to farm the block, and processes it themselves.

0:40  
In return, they receive 1/8 the value of the reward, while the remaining 7/8 is distributed to the rest of the pool, based on valid partials. Because the block is still farmed by an individual farmer, the network remains sufficiently decentralized.

1:00  
The overall reward earned is largely the same over time for average sized farms, so Pooling is a great choice to get started.

</details>

---

## Common gotchas

- **Farming size still matters:** The size of a Farm directly relates to how many valid partials are generated, and partials determine a farmers share of the pool reward (7/8). This means there is still a benefit to large farms joining a pool.

---

## Knowledge check

:::tip Question 1 - Reward Split

What is the reward split between the Farmer and the Pool?

:::

<details>

<summary> Answer (expand when ready to see the answer)  </summary>

`"1/8 goes to the Farmer who won the challenge, 7/8 goes to the pool to be distributed"`

</details>

:::tip Question 2 - Decentralized Pooling

How does the protocol maintain decentralization?

:::

<details>

<summary> Answer (expand when ready to see the answer)  </summary>

`"By letting the Farmers process and author blocks, the network remains decentralized. Since the pool has no way of knowing which Farmer will win, and does not have a say on which transactions will be included in the block."`

</details>

---

## Additional resources

### Links

- More [farming basics](https://docs.chia.net/farming-basics): overviews of plotting, pooling, and rewards.
- In depth [architecture overview](https://docs.chia.net/architecture-overview): describing the interactions between Farmers, Harvesters, Wallets, etc.
- Chialisp [detailed documentation](https://chialisp.com/): detailed information on all aspects of chialisp.
- Support [in discord](https://discord.gg/chia): for further support join our discord server and ask in the #chialisp or #support channels.

---
