docs/troubleshooting/check-if-things-are-working.md, before:

---
title: Check if Things are Working
slug: /troubleshooting/check-if-things-are-working
---

This doc assumes you know how to use the CLI. Using the CLI is the best way to troubleshoot (and to do everything Chia too). The [Installation page](/installation) and the [CLI Commands Reference page](/cli) have useful info to get you familiar with the CLI.

## Where to Find Things

The file structure for Linux, macOS, and Windows versions of Chia are similar.

```
/home/user
├─ .chia/
│   └── mainnet/
│      ├─ config/
│      │      ├─ config.yaml
│      │      └─ ssl/
│      │            └─ (and more...)
│      ├─ db/
│      ├─ log/
│      │      └─ debug.log
│      ├─ run/
│      │      └─ (and more...)
│      └─ wallet/
│             └─ (and more...)
└── /chia-blockchain
       └─ (and more...)
```

### Linux & macOS

- Chia config: `~/.chia/mainnet/config/config.yaml`
- Chia logs: `~/.chia/mainnet/log/`

### Windows

- Chia config: `C:\Users\%USERNAME%\.chia\mainnet\config\config.yaml`
- Chia logs: `C:\Users\%USERNAME%\.chia\mainnet\log\`

# Logs

## CLI

You can use the CLI command `chia configure --set-log-level INFO` to set your log level to the useful INFO setting. Be sure to restart Chia after making settings changes.

## Config File

In `config.yaml` you can set the level of detail for your logs.

Look for this section in `config.yaml`. It's useful to change the logger setting `log_level` from `WARNING` to `INFO` to get the detail needed to troubleshoot.

```yaml
logging: &id001
  log_filename: log/debug.log
  log_level: INFO
  log_stdout: false
```

You can run `grep` ([Linux](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/grep.1.html), [macOS](https://ss64.com/osx/grep.html)) or `Select-String` ([Windows](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/select-string?view=powershell-7.1)) to search through your logs for relevant information.

# Is It Working?

If you want to quickly find errors, run this:

- Linux/macOS: `cat ~/.chia/mainnet/log/debug.log | grep -i 'error'`
- Windows: `Get-Content -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug.log" | Select-String -Pattern "error"`

## Harvester

The time it takes to do a proof challenge should be below 30 seconds. If you see higher times, something is wrong with your setup.

Here are some commands you can use to examine `debug.log` for problems.

- Linux/macOS:
  - `tail ~/.chia/mainnet/log/debug.log | grep eligible`
- Windows:
  - `Select-String -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug*" -Pattern "eligible"`
  - `Select-String -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug*" -Pattern "Found [^0] proof"`
  - `Select-String -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug*" -Pattern "Farmed unfinished_block"`
  - `Get-Content -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug.log" -Wait | Select-String -Pattern "found"`

## Plotting

You can find the documentation for the `check` command on the [CLI Commands Reference page](/cli#check) page

- To check all your plots, run `chia plots check`. This will check all directories you have listed in your `config.yaml` to contain plots.
- Use `chia plots check -h` to see the options for this command.

## Full Node

Block Validation Time
- Linux/macOS:
  - `grep -o "Block validation time: .* seconds" .chia/mainnet/log/debug.log |sort -rV | head -n 10`
  - For a fancy grep `apt install st-console` then run:
    - `grep "Block validation time:" ~/.chia/mainnet/log/debug.log* | awk '{print $8}' | st-console --summary -N`
- Windows:
  - `Select-String -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug*" -Pattern "Block validation time:"`

Commit message:

Updated URL and Powershell Command

docs/troubleshooting/check-if-things-are-working.md, after:

---
title: Check if Things are Working
slug: /troubleshooting/check-if-things-are-working
---

This doc assumes you know how to use the CLI. Using the CLI is the best way to troubleshoot (and to do everything Chia too). The [Installation page](/installation) and the [CLI Commands Reference page](/cli) have useful info to get you familiar with the CLI.

## Where to Find Things

The file structure for Linux, macOS, and Windows versions of Chia are similar.

```
/home/user
├─ .chia/
│   └── mainnet/
│      ├─ config/
│      │      ├─ config.yaml
│      │      └─ ssl/
│      │            └─ (and more...)
│      ├─ db/
│      ├─ log/
│      │      └─ debug.log
│      ├─ run/
│      │      └─ (and more...)
│      └─ wallet/
│             └─ (and more...)
└── /chia-blockchain
       └─ (and more...)
```

### Linux & macOS

- Chia config: `~/.chia/mainnet/config/config.yaml`
- Chia logs: `~/.chia/mainnet/log/`

### Windows

- Chia config: `C:\Users\%USERNAME%\.chia\mainnet\config\config.yaml`
- Chia logs: `C:\Users\%USERNAME%\.chia\mainnet\log\`

# Logs

## CLI

You can use the CLI command `chia configure --set-log-level INFO` to set your log level to the useful INFO setting. Be sure to restart Chia after making settings changes.

## Config File

In `config.yaml` you can set the level of detail for your logs.

Look for this section in `config.yaml`. It's useful to change the logger setting `log_level` from `WARNING` to `INFO` to get the detail needed to troubleshoot.

```yaml
logging: &id001
  log_filename: log/debug.log
  log_level: INFO
  log_stdout: false
```

You can run `grep` ([Linux](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/grep.1.html), [macOS](https://ss64.com/osx/grep.html)) or `Select-String` ([Windows Powershell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/select-string?view=powershell-7.4)) to search through your logs for relevant information.

# Is It Working?

If you want to quickly find errors, run this:

- Linux/macOS: `cat ~/.chia/mainnet/log/debug.log | grep -i 'error'`
- Windows Powershell: `Get-Content -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug.log" | Select-String -Pattern "error"`

## Harvester

The time it takes to do a proof challenge should be below 30 seconds. If you see higher times, something is wrong with your setup.

Here are some commands you can use to examine `debug.log` for problems.

- Linux/macOS:
  - `tail ~/.chia/mainnet/log/debug.log | grep eligible`
- Windows Powershell:
  - `Select-String -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug*" -Pattern "eligible"`
  - `Select-String -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug*" -Pattern "Found [^0] proof"`
  - `Select-String -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug*" -Pattern "Farmed unfinished_block"`
  - `Get-Content -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug.log" -Wait | Select-String -Pattern "found"`

## Plotting

You can find the documentation for the `check` command on the [CLI Commands Reference page](/cli#check) page

- To check all your plots, run `chia plots check`. This will check all directories you have listed in your `config.yaml` to contain plots.
- Use `chia plots check -h` to see the options for this command.

## Full Node

Block Validation Time
- Linux/macOS:
  - `grep -o "Block validation time: .* seconds" .chia/mainnet/log/debug.log |sort -rV | head -n 10`
  - For a fancy grep `apt install st-console` then run:
    - `grep "Block validation time:" ~/.chia/mainnet/log/debug.log* | awk '{print $8}' | st-console --summary -N`
- Windows Powershell:
  - `Select-String -Path "~\.chia\mainnet\log\debug.log" -Pattern "Block validation time:" | Select-Object -Last 10` (change 10 to the number of lines you wish to return)
