docs/resources/k-sizes.md, before:

---
title: K Sizes
slug: /k-sizes
---

# K size with compression level

| Compression Level | Plot Size k=32 (GiB) | Plot Size k=32 (GB) | Plot Size k=33 (GiB) | Plot Size k=34 (GiB) | Plot Size k=35 (GiB) |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- |
| 0                 | 101.4                | 108.8               | 208.8                | 429.9                | 884.1                |
| 1                 | 87.5                 | 94.0                | 179.6                | 368.2                | 754.3                |
| 2                 | 86.0                 | 92.4                | 176.6                | 362.1                | 742.2                |
| 3                 | 84.5                 | 90.7                | 173.4                | 355.9                | 729.7                |
| 4                 | 82.9                 | 89.0                | 170.2                | 349.4                | 716.8                |
| 5                 | 81.3                 | 87.2                | 167.0                | 343.0                | 704.0                |
| 6                 | 79.6                 | 85.5                | 163.8                | 336.6                | 691.1                |
| 7                 | 78.0                 | 83.8                | 160.6                | 330.2                | 678.3                |
| 9                 | 75.2                 | 80.7                | 154.1                | 315.5                | 645.8                |

:::info
**k=32 is the minimum plot size** that will be eligible for farming. Although you may see k=25, this is used for testing purposes only.
:::
When planning on how much plotting space is required, only calculate the temporary disk size requirement.

If stagger plotting, disk size requirement may change depending on which Phase the plotting is at.

## New constant space factor

For a given _k_, the plot size is roughly `((2 * k) + 1) * (2 ** (k - 1)) * 0.78005`. 
In previous versions of Chia's documentation and code, the constant at the end of this equation was estimated to be 0.762. 
Our documentation and code now use a closer estimation of 0.78005.

The following table shows the old size estimation of C0 plots, along with the new estimations:

| k  | Old est. size (GB) | New est. size (GB) |
| -: | -----------------: | -----------------: |
| 32 | 106.3648651        | 108.8844003        |
| 33 | 219.2752603        | 224.469379         |
| 34 | 451.641581         | 462.339915         |
| 35 | 929.4652826        | 951.4821439        |
| 36 | 1911.294806        | 1956.568916        |
| 37 | 3927.318095        | 4020.347087        |
| 38 | 8064.093156        | 8255.112685        |
| 39 | 16547.10024        | 16939.06239        |


## Plots larger than k=32

Although not required, plots larger than k=32 may be created. There is not a great benefit to using larger plot sizes as the chance of winning is proportional to final plot file size. There are advanced tactics to using a larger `k` value to reduce unused storage space or optimize drive idle states, but these are not recommended for the majority of people.

Commit message:

include storage requirements in k-size page
include storage requirements for uncompressed plots in k-size page

docs/resources/k-sizes.md, after:

---
title: K Sizes
slug: /k-sizes
---

## K size with compression level

| Compression Level | Plot Size k=32 (GiB) | Plot Size k=32 (GB) | Plot Size k=33 (GiB) | Plot Size k=34 (GiB) | Plot Size k=35 (GiB) |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- |
| 0                 | 101.4                | 108.8               | 208.8                | 429.9                | 884.1                |
| 1                 | 87.5                 | 94.0                | 179.6                | 368.2                | 754.3                |
| 2                 | 86.0                 | 92.4                | 176.6                | 362.1                | 742.2                |
| 3                 | 84.5                 | 90.7                | 173.4                | 355.9                | 729.7                |
| 4                 | 82.9                 | 89.0                | 170.2                | 349.4                | 716.8                |
| 5                 | 81.3                 | 87.2                | 167.0                | 343.0                | 704.0                |
| 6                 | 79.6                 | 85.5                | 163.8                | 336.6                | 691.1                |
| 7                 | 78.0                 | 83.8                | 160.6                | 330.2                | 678.3                |
| 9                 | 75.2                 | 80.7                | 154.1                | 315.5                | 645.8                |

:::info
**k=32 is the minimum plot size** that will be eligible for farming. Although you may see k=25, this is used for testing purposes only.
:::
When planning on how much plotting space is required, only calculate the temporary disk size requirement.

If stagger plotting, disk size requirement may change depending on which Phase the plotting is at.

## New constant space factor

For a given _k_, the plot size is roughly `((2 * k) + 1) * (2 ** (k - 1)) * 0.78005`. 
In previous versions of Chia's documentation and code, the constant at the end of this equation was estimated to be 0.762. 
Our documentation and code now use a closer estimation of 0.78005.

The following table shows the old size estimation of C0 plots, along with the new estimations:

| k  | Old est. size (GB) | New est. size (GB) |
| -: | -----------------: | -----------------: |
| 32 | 106.3648651        | 108.8844003        |
| 33 | 219.2752603        | 224.469379         |
| 34 | 451.641581         | 462.339915         |
| 35 | 929.4652826        | 951.4821439        |
| 36 | 1911.294806        | 1956.568916        |
| 37 | 3927.318095        | 4020.347087        |
| 38 | 8064.093156        | 8255.112685        |
| 39 | 16547.10024        | 16939.06239        |

## Storage requirements for uncompressed plots

| K-size | Temp. Size         | Final Size           |
|--------|--------------------|----------------------|
| K=32   | 239 GiB (256.6 GB) | 101.4 GiB (108.9 GB) |
| K=33   | 512 GiB (550 GB)   | 208.8 GiB (224.2 GB) |
| K=34   | 1041 GiB (1118 GB) | 429.8 GiB (461.5 GB) |
| K=35   | 2175 GiB (2335 GB) | 884.1 GiB (949.3 GB) |

When planning on how much plotting space is required, only calculate the temporary disk size requirement.

When stagger plotting, disk size requirement may change depending on which Phase the plotting is at.

## Plots larger than k=32

Although not required, plots larger than k=32 may be created. There is not a great benefit to using larger plot sizes as the chance of winning is proportional to final plot file size. There are advanced tactics to using a larger `k` value to reduce unused storage space or optimize drive idle states, but these are not recommended for the majority of people.
