docs/resources/references.md, before:

---
title: References
slug: /references
---

## Chia Network

- [chia.net](https://www.chia.net/) -- Chia's main website
- [chialisp.com](https://chialisp.com) -- the official chialisp website
- [Chia's business white paper](https://www.chia.net/whitepaper "Chia's business white paper")

## Chia's Technical Specs

- [Chia's green paper](https://docs.chia.net/green-paper-abstract "Chia's Green Paper") -- showcases Proofs of Space and Time
- [Proofs of Space specification](https://www.chia.net/assets/Chia_Proof_of_Space_Construction_v1.1.pdf)
- [BLS Signatures](https://github.com/Chia-Network/bls-signatures "Chia's BLS Signatures on GitHub")
- [Verifiable Delay Function (VDF)](https://github.com/Chia-Network/chiavdf "Chia's VDF on GitHub")
- [Proofs of Space](https://github.com/Chia-Network/chiapos "Chia's Proof of Space repository on GitHub")
- [Binary Quadratic Forms](https://github.com/Chia-Network/vdf-competition/blob/main/classgroups.pdf 'Binary quadratic forms white paper, by Lipa Long') -- a white paper by Lipa Long

## Video

- [Mariano Sorgente's 2019 presentation](https://youtu.be/_075bzQPooU) at MIT on how to achieve Nakamoto consensus with Proof of Space and VDFs
- [Bram Cohen's 2018 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Zlcgt8FVz4) at Stanford on Proofs of Space
- [Bram Cohen's 2018 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iqxkO7C-cyk) at BPASE on the [Beyond Hellman](https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/893.pdf "Beyond Hellman's Time-Memory Trade Offs with Applications to Proofs of Space") academic paper ([slides](https://view.publitas.com/chia-network/pbase18slides/page/1) by Hamza Abusalah)
- [Ben Fisch's 2018 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qUoagL7OZ1k&feature=youtu.be) at BPASE 2018 on Verifiable Delay Functions
- [Bram Cohen's 2018 presentation](https://www.facebook.com/BlockchainatBerkeley/videos/2006069823011271/) at Berkeley (which starts about 20:00)
- [Bram Cohen's 2017 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYG0NxoG7yw) at BPASE on removing waste with Proofs of Space and Time
- [Bram Cohen's 2015 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zZaB4hM8SQ4) at SF Bitcoin Devs Seminar about data structures for scaling Bitcoin with [slides](https://view.publitas.com/chia-network/bitcoin_data_structures/) and [Merkle Set code](https://github.com/bramcohen/MerkleSet)

## External

- [Chia's power consumption](https://chiapower.org "Chia's energy consumption statistics")
- [A Survey of Two Verifiable Delay Functions](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/712.pdf 'The underlying technology of Proof of Time'), by our advisors Dan Boneh, Benedikt Bünz, and Ben Fisch
- [Simple Verifiable Delay Functions](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/627.pdf 'The basis for Proof of Time'), by our advisor Krzysztof Pietrzak
- [History of Cryptography](https://cs.stanford.edu/people/eroberts/courses/soco/projects/public-key-cryptography/history.html#:~:text=The%20idea%20of%20public%20key,known%20as%20the%20knapsack%20problem), from Stanford University
- [Beyond Hellman](https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/893.pdf "Beyond Hellman's Time-Memory Trade Offs with Applications to Proofs of Space"), by Hamza Abusalah, Jo ̈el Alwen, Bram Cohen, Danylo Khilko, Krzysztof Pietrzak, and Leonid Reyzin
- [POS Longest Chain Protocols](http://tselab.stanford.edu/downloads/PoS_LC_SBC2020.pdf), by Vivek Bagaria, Amir Dembo, Sreeram Kannan, Sewoong Oh, David Tse, Pramod Viswanath, Xuechao Wang, and Ofer Zeitouni
- [Flyclient paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/226.pdf), by Benedikt Bunz, Lucianna Kiffer, Loi Luu, and Mahdi Zamani
- [PoSAT paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.08154), by Soubhik Deb, Sreeram Kannan, and David Tse
- [PoS security vs predictability](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.02218.pdf), by Vivek Bagaria, Amir Dembo, Sreeram Kannan, Sewoong Oh, David Tse, Pramod Viswanath, Xuechao Wang, and Ofer Zeitouni
- [bech32m](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0350.mediawiki) -- the address encoding scheme used by Chia
- [x.509](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.509) -- the public key certificate used in Chia peer nodes
- [DER](https://wiki.openssl.org/index.php/DER) -- a data structure used with x.509 certificates
- [BLS-12-381](https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381) -- the type of keys Chia uses
- [IETF](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature/) -- the BLS signature specification
- [EIP-2333](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2333) -- a tree structure for deriving BLS keys
- [SLIP-0044](https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0044.md) -- registered coin types for BIP-0044

Commit message:

Add link to BC and DB permutation doc

docs/resources/references.md, after:

---
title: References
slug: /references
---

## Chia Network

- [chia.net](https://www.chia.net/) -- Chia's main website
- [chialisp.com](https://chialisp.com) -- the official chialisp website
- [Chia's business white paper](https://www.chia.net/whitepaper "Chia's business white paper")

## Chia's Technical Specs

- [Chia's green paper](https://docs.chia.net/green-paper-abstract "Chia's Green Paper") -- showcases Proofs of Space and Time
- [Proofs of Space specification](https://www.chia.net/assets/Chia_Proof_of_Space_Construction_v1.1.pdf)
- [BLS Signatures](https://github.com/Chia-Network/bls-signatures "Chia's BLS Signatures on GitHub")
- [Verifiable Delay Function (VDF)](https://github.com/Chia-Network/chiavdf "Chia's VDF on GitHub")
- [Proofs of Space](https://github.com/Chia-Network/chiapos "Chia's Proof of Space repository on GitHub")
- [Binary Quadratic Forms](https://github.com/Chia-Network/vdf-competition/blob/main/classgroups.pdf 'Binary quadratic forms white paper, by Lipa Long') -- a white paper by Lipa Long
- [How to Store a Permutation Compactly](https://hackmd.io/@dabo/rkP8Pcf9t) by Bram Cohen and Dan Boneh

## Video

- [Mariano Sorgente's 2019 presentation](https://youtu.be/_075bzQPooU) at MIT on how to achieve Nakamoto consensus with Proof of Space and VDFs
- [Bram Cohen's 2018 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Zlcgt8FVz4) at Stanford on Proofs of Space
- [Bram Cohen's 2018 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iqxkO7C-cyk) at BPASE on the [Beyond Hellman](https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/893.pdf "Beyond Hellman's Time-Memory Trade Offs with Applications to Proofs of Space") academic paper ([slides](https://view.publitas.com/chia-network/pbase18slides/page/1) by Hamza Abusalah)
- [Ben Fisch's 2018 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qUoagL7OZ1k&feature=youtu.be) at BPASE 2018 on Verifiable Delay Functions
- [Bram Cohen's 2018 presentation](https://www.facebook.com/BlockchainatBerkeley/videos/2006069823011271/) at Berkeley (which starts about 20:00)
- [Bram Cohen's 2017 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYG0NxoG7yw) at BPASE on removing waste with Proofs of Space and Time
- [Bram Cohen's 2015 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zZaB4hM8SQ4) at SF Bitcoin Devs Seminar about data structures for scaling Bitcoin with [slides](https://view.publitas.com/chia-network/bitcoin_data_structures/) and [Merkle Set code](https://github.com/bramcohen/MerkleSet)

## External

- [Chia's power consumption](https://chiapower.org "Chia's energy consumption statistics")
- [A Survey of Two Verifiable Delay Functions](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/712.pdf 'The underlying technology of Proof of Time'), by our advisors Dan Boneh, Benedikt Bünz, and Ben Fisch
- [Simple Verifiable Delay Functions](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/627.pdf 'The basis for Proof of Time'), by our advisor Krzysztof Pietrzak
- [History of Cryptography](https://cs.stanford.edu/people/eroberts/courses/soco/projects/public-key-cryptography/history.html#:~:text=The%20idea%20of%20public%20key,known%20as%20the%20knapsack%20problem), from Stanford University
- [Beyond Hellman](https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/893.pdf "Beyond Hellman's Time-Memory Trade Offs with Applications to Proofs of Space"), by Hamza Abusalah, Jo ̈el Alwen, Bram Cohen, Danylo Khilko, Krzysztof Pietrzak, and Leonid Reyzin
- [POS Longest Chain Protocols](http://tselab.stanford.edu/downloads/PoS_LC_SBC2020.pdf), by Vivek Bagaria, Amir Dembo, Sreeram Kannan, Sewoong Oh, David Tse, Pramod Viswanath, Xuechao Wang, and Ofer Zeitouni
- [Flyclient paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/226.pdf), by Benedikt Bunz, Lucianna Kiffer, Loi Luu, and Mahdi Zamani
- [PoSAT paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.08154), by Soubhik Deb, Sreeram Kannan, and David Tse
- [PoS security vs predictability](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.02218.pdf), by Vivek Bagaria, Amir Dembo, Sreeram Kannan, Sewoong Oh, David Tse, Pramod Viswanath, Xuechao Wang, and Ofer Zeitouni
- [bech32m](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0350.mediawiki) -- the address encoding scheme used by Chia
- [x.509](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.509) -- the public key certificate used in Chia peer nodes
- [DER](https://wiki.openssl.org/index.php/DER) -- a data structure used with x.509 certificates
- [BLS-12-381](https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381) -- the type of keys Chia uses
- [IETF](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature/) -- the BLS signature specification
- [EIP-2333](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2333) -- a tree structure for deriving BLS keys
- [SLIP-0044](https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0044.md) -- registered coin types for BIP-0044
